While this book does not have any formal mathematical or computer science prerequisites, it is aimed at the level of a first-year undergraduate university student. Some high-school-level topics like logarithms, the “floor” function $f(x) = \lfloor x \rfloor$ for rounding numbers down, the binary representation of a positive integer, and summation notation like $\sum_{k=1}^n{k^2}$  for adding numbers, are used frequently and without much explanation. Perhaps the most sophisticated mathematical machinery we use is in Section 9.6, where we multiply some $2 \times 2$ matrices (but only upper triangular $2 \times 2$ matrices, and we provide the matrix multiplication formula).

A basic understanding of how mathematical proofs and computer programming work is also expected. That is, we expect a certain level of mathematical and computer science maturity from the reader, but no specialized knowledge of either topic. Throughout the book, we prove some simple theorems about the Game of Life. These proofs do not use any specialized proof techniques or expect the reader to have any specific university-level mathematical knowledge, but rather just expect the reader to be able to follow a logical argument. Similarly, we introduce a programming language for building computer programs out of Life circuits in Chapter 9, so that material will be easier to master if the reader has had prior exposure to computer programming.

Somewhat more advanced mathematical topics that we make use of are summarized in Appendix A, though they are typically introduced very gently in the main text as well, and we only require a very surface-level understanding of them. We make use of the greatest common divisor, the least common multiple, and Bézout’s identity when discussing oscillator periods in Chapter 3, so we introduce these tools in Appendix A.2. Infinite series make brief appearances at the end of Chapter 6 and in Section 9.6, though the reader is not expected to really have any familiarity with them or to understand convergence issues. Finally, big-Θ notation is used to discuss the size and growth rate of patterns in Sections 7.6, 8.8, and 9.7.2, so we introduce this concept in Appendix A.3.