The authors are indebted to dozens of people who opened the world of Conway’s Game of Life to them. Rather than acknowledging the people who discovered the reactions and patterns that we discuss here, they are credited in footnotes and figures throughout the book.

We extend thanks to Adam P. Goucher for numerous contributions to the writing of this book, especially in Chapter 12. Thanks to Nicolay Beluchenko, Oscar Cunningham, Steven Eker, Bill Gosper, Hartmut Holzwart, Tanner Jacobi, Matthias Merzenich, Daniel Mouscher, Mark Niemiec, David Raucci, Chris Rowett, Ville Salo, Rich Schroeppel, Michael Simkin, Connor Steppie, Satoshi Tanaka, Justin Tang, and Kalan Warusa, as well as “AlephAlpha”, “Chris857”, “dani”, “Ian07”, and many other ConwayLife.com forum users, for helpful conversations and corrections to early versions of this book.

Thanks to Andrew Trevorrow and Tomas Rokicki for creating the open-source cross-platform cellular automaton editor and simulator Golly(golly.sourceforge.net), without which many of the patterns discussed in this book would not have been discovered. Thanks to Chris Rowett for creating LifeViewer (lazyslug.com/lifeviewer), which is used on this book’s website (conwaylife.com/book) to display patterns and make them interactive. Thanks to Velimir Gayevskiy and Mathias Legrand for the Legrand Orange Book LaTeX template from LaTeXTemplates.com.

Finally, the authors would like to thank their wives Kathryn and Melanie for tolerating them during their years of mental absence glued to this book, and their parents for encouraging them to care about both learning and teaching. Many thanks also to Mount Allison University for giving the first author the academic freedom to pursue a project like this one.